1. In Personal Window we don`t allow other software apart from official Software used in our Company
2. In Personla Laptop We don`t provide any suport only internet connectivity support is given by us.
3. We don`t allow personal window liecense in Company Laptop only linux o/s is allowed.
4. We don`t provide any Lan Connectivity to Laptop user.
5. We Don`t allow internet connctivity to Personal Mobile users.
6. We Provide thinclient to RDP USER so that laptop is being issued to Other Employee.
7. Don`t allw to plugin usb Charging cable in thinclient

Department Of IT, Govt. Of NCT Of Delhi

IT Security & Audit Policy

1 Introduction

1.1 Information Security
Information Security Policies are the cornerstone of information security effectiveness.
The Security Policy is intended to define what is expected from an organization with
respect to security of Information Systems. The overall objective is to control or guide
human behavior in an attempt to reduce the risk to information assets by accidental or
deliberate actions.
Information security policies underpin the security and well being of information
resources. They are t

2. Policy For General Users 

2.1 Using Floppies/ CD/ Flash Drives 


1. Floppy should be used in consultation with system administrator/incharge computer center and should be scanned before use.

2. Unofficial Floppies, CDs or Flash Drives should not be used on office systems.

3. Floppy should be write-protected if data is to be transferred from floppy to system. 


2.2 Password

1. Keep the system screen saver enabled with password protection.

2. Donít share or disclose your password.

3. User should not have easily detectable passwords for Network access, screensaver etc.

4. A strong password must be as long as possible, include mixed-case letters,include digits and punctuation marks, not be based on 
   any personal information, not be based on any dictionary word, in any language.

5. Never use the same password twice.

6. Change password at regular intervals. 



2.3 Backup

1. Backup should be maintained regularly on the space provided on central server of the department or on the storage media as per department policy.

2. Keep paper copy of server configuration file.

3. Keep the DATs or other removable media in a secure location away from the computer.

4. Always backup the data before leaving the workstation.

5. For sensitive and important data offsite backup should be used




 IT Security & Audit Policy

2.4 Physical Safety of System

1. Protect the system from unauthorized use, loss or damage, e.g. the door should be locked when not in the office.

2. Keep portable equipment secure.

3. Position monitor and printers so that others cannot see sensitive data.

4. Keep floppy disks and other media in a secure place.

5. Seek advice on disposal of equipment.

6. Report any loss of data or accessories to the System Administrator/incharge computer center.

7. Keep the system and sensitive data secure from outsiders.

8. Get authorization before taking equipment off-site.

9. Take care when moving equipment (Read instruction on moving equipment).

10. Install UPS system with adequate battery backups to avoid any data loss or corruption due to power failure.

11. System should be properly shut down before leaving the office.

12. Log-off the system if you are leaving your seat.

13. Never remove the cables when your PC is powered ON since this can cause an electrical short circuit.

14. Do not stop scandisk if system prompts to run it at the time of system startup.

15. Always use mouse on mouse pad.

16. Be gentle while handling keyboard and mouse.

17. Do not open case of the hardware.

18. Make sure that there is some slack in the cables attached to your system.


2.5 Computer Files

1. All file level security depends upon the file system. Only the most secure file system should be chosen for the server.
  Then user permission for individual files, folders, drives should be set.

2. Any default shares should be removed.

3. Only required file and object shares should be enabled on the server.

4. Never download or run attached files from unknown email ID.

5. Always keep files in the computer in organized manner for easy accessibility. If required create new folders and sub-folders.

6. Avoid creating junk files and folders.

7. System files and libraries should not be accessed as it can cause malfunctioning of system.

8. When transferring data, be sure it is going to the destination. If asked "Would you like to replace the existing file " make sure, before clicking "yes". 


2.6 General Instructions


1. In case of uncertainty about a task, make sure there is a copy of the data to restore from.

2. Follow instructions or procedures that comes from System administrator/Incharge computer centre time to time.

3. Users are not supposed to do his or her personal work on computers.

4. Please intimate System administrator/Incharge computer centre in case of system malfunction.

5. User should always work on his/her allotted machines. In case of any urgency/emergency user may use otherís machine with consultation of System administrator/Incharge computer centre.

6. Antivirus software should be updated timely in consultation with System Administrator/Incharge computer centre.

7. Donít give others the opportunity to look over your shoulder if you are workingon sensitive data/contents.

8. Do not use unnecessary shareware.

9. Do not install or copy software on system without permission of System administrator/Incharge computer centre.

10. Avoid unnecessary connectivity of Internet.IT Security & Audit Policy

11. Donít panic in case system hangs. Report it your IT Nodal Officer/System Administrator/Incharge computer centre.

12. If lock and key system is available then user should ensure the security of all the parts of the computer.

13. Please ensure that preinstalled Antivirus is running on the system.

14. Food and drinks should not be placed near systems. Cup of Tea/ Coffee or water glass should not be on CPU or Monitor or Key Board.

15. Always power off the system when cleaning it.

16. Never use wet cloth for wiping the screen.

17. Never shut the system down while programs are running. The open files will, more likely, become truncated and non-functional.

18. Never stack books/ files or other materials on the CPU.

19. Place the cover on the computers when you close the computers at the end of the day. 



